As we've seen, the blockchain works using a peer-to-peer network.
It's useful to understand how this compares to other possibilities.
Is it better, worse, or just different?
Well, it's actually more about picking the right tool for
the application than trying to decide if one is always better than the other.
Here we'll start by defining another type of network,
the client server model.
From there, we'll be prepared to compare them to
decide when each might be a better fit for your application.
Let's walk through the details.
A client-server model is an application structure that breaks up
tasks between service providers and service requesters.
A server is a centralized resource that
contains the information that users want to access.
The client makes a request to the server and
the server responds with the information the client needs.
There are different types of servers depending on the situation.
Web servers serve websites and file servers serve computer files.
You can even take the client server analogy beyond computers.
Anything that provides any service like food or
beverages is a server and anyone they serve is the client.
A client server infrastructure can contain many separate servers,
but these servers are owned by a single authority.
For example, Google, Amazon, Twitter,
and many other sites keep their data stored across servers that they own.
Having many servers helps ensure that if something happens to one,
then information isn't lost.
Clients or users like us will go to a website.
Any action we take like asking a question or
searching for a product is a new request to the server.
Once the server finds the information you're requesting,
it will serve it to you and load it onto your web browser.
A single server can serve requests for many clients.
They do this using a communication protocol that is built into the network.
This request and response drives the entire relationship between clients and servers.
This client server relationship is similar to
the P2P network but the way it's executed is different.
A peer-to-peer network is a network of
computers that share access to files with each other.
In peer-to-peer networks, every node is both the server and the client.
They both hold information that others can
access and can request information from others.
The peer-to-peer model allows us to have distributed or decentralized
networks rather than centralized networks like in a client-server model.
There's one important thing to know as a potential problem of
peer-to-peer networks in the case of Bitcoin and other proof-of-work blockchains.
If you have access to more computing power,
you can allocate more resources to mining and get more rewards for your effort.
This gives you more money to buy more computers and get even more rewards.
This cycle has caused problems for peer-to-peer networks using proof-of-work.
The larger miners keep buying more resources,
getting larger and larger and this
centralizes all the work happening to just a few nodes.
Centralizing the power and information defeats the purpose of
a distributed network and is a major reason why
the blockchain is turning to solutions outside of proof-of-work.
Coming up, we'll look at some more differences between these two models.